Hi, I'm Chris Faircloth, Artistic Director
and co-owner of Salon Teez. For Expert Village,
this is how to trim women's hair. The next
type of technique that we'll do is a technique
called back cutting. What we'll do here is
actually use a horizontal piece or a horizontal
section of hair. This particular technique
actually creates a lot of weight in the hair
and a lot of movement as far as volume is
concerned. For those clients that are looking
for a lot of volume, this is a great technique
to use. We'll take our section that will be
about an inch and a half section. Again that's
horizontal because we do want to create some
weight and some fullness. We'll use our shear
but typically with this, we don't want to
close down. We're still kind of talking but
as we move towards the scalp, we're gradually
closing the blade of the shear but not all
the way to the scalp and not all the way closed.
I'll do this is slow motion so you that you
can see what the effect will be and we'll
work all the way through the hair shaft. Notice
that I'm kind of talking my shear through,
at the same time I'm not slide cutting. It's
almost a teasing motion that I would be using
here like as if we were teasing the hair with
a comb.
Now you'll have short and long pieces in there
and that's okay because what that will give
us is a lot of volume and a lot of movement
underneath, almost like a support structure
in the hair shaft. Once you've had some practice
at this,
you move at a faster pace because you want
to work through the hair very, very quickly.
We can also weave out hair with the bottom
blade so that we're not taking all of that
hair and now we'll just talk the hair, again,
I'm not pushing the blade, I'm talking the
blade through so I'm not creating a slide
cutting type of effect. The layers blend in
very nicely and that gives us more support
underneath so that we can get a good amount
of volume. This technique would only want
to be used in the top of the head although
we could use it around the middle section
of the hair to give us some more movement
and some more volume as well.